README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid) [![Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/1oqx295j13frpj9w?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/matthew-d-jones/isis-nexus-streamer-for-mantid) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid?branch=master) [![License (2-Clause BSD)](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSD%202--Clause-blue.svg)](https://github.com/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid/blob/master/LICENSE)

# ISIS NeXus Streamer for Mantid
Stream event data from a NeXus file from RAL/ISIS using Apache Kafka for the purpose of development of live data streaming in Mantid. Each message sent over Kafka comprises the event data from a single neutron pulse.

The client runs until the user terminates it, repeatedly sending data from the same file but with incrementing run numbers. However the `-z` flag can be used to produce only a single run.

Usage:
```
main_nexusPublisher -f <filepath>    Full file path of nexus file to stream
-d <det_spec_map_filepath>    Full file path of file defining the det-spec mapping
-b <host>    Broker IP address or hostname
[-i <instrument_name>]    Used as prefix for topic names
[-s]    Slow mode, publishes data at approx realistic rate of 10 frames per second
[-q]    Quiet mode, makes publisher less chatty on stdout
[-z]    Produce only a single run (otherwise repeats until interrupted)
```

Usage example:
```
main_nexusPublisher -f /path/to/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid.git/data/SANS_test_uncompressed.hdf5 -d /path/to/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid.git/data/spectrum_gastubes_01.dat -b localhost -i SANS2D -z
```

## Broker Configuration
Timestamped "run" start and stop messages are produced. With these Mantid can join the stream at the start of a run and has various options for behaviour at run stop. This makes use of the offset by timestamp lookup feature and thus requires Kafka version >0.10.2.0 on the brokers.
It is also important to allow larger than the default message size by adding the following to the kafka configuration file (`server.properties`):
```
replica.fetch.max.bytes=10000000
message.max.bytes=10000000
```
We use this Ansible playbook to deploy Kafka: https://github.com/ScreamingUdder/ansible-kafka-centos


## Dependencies
Currently requires having `librdkafka` and the HDF5 C++ library installed. If `tcmalloc` is available then it will be used, but it is not a requirement.

`Google Test` and `Google Mock` are used for unit testing but are not required to be installed; CMake will download and build them at configure-time.

Due to large file sizes altering the test data requires `git lfs` to be installed:
https://git-lfs.github.com/

## Unit tests
The unit test executable `unitTests` needs to be passed the path of the test data directory as an argument.
Alternatively, run all units tests using ctest with
```
ctest -VV
```
from the build directory.

## Schema
The schema files are located in https://github.com/ess-dmsc/streaming-data-types

Commit message:

document docker scripts in the readme

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid) [![Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/1oqx295j13frpj9w?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/matthew-d-jones/isis-nexus-streamer-for-mantid) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid?branch=master) [![License (2-Clause BSD)](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSD%202--Clause-blue.svg)](https://github.com/ScreamingUdder/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid/blob/master/LICENSE)

# ISIS NeXus Streamer for Mantid
Stream event data from a NeXus file from RAL/ISIS using Apache Kafka for the purpose of development of live data streaming in Mantid. Each message sent over Kafka comprises the event data from a single neutron pulse.

The client runs until the user terminates it, repeatedly sending data from the same file but with incrementing run numbers. However the `-z` flag can be used to produce only a single run.

Usage:
```
main_nexusPublisher -f <filepath>    Full file path of nexus file to stream
-d <det_spec_map_filepath>    Full file path of file defining the det-spec mapping
-b <host>    Broker IP address or hostname
[-i <instrument_name>]    Used as prefix for topic names
[-s]    Slow mode, publishes data at approx realistic rate of 10 frames per second
[-q]    Quiet mode, makes publisher less chatty on stdout
[-z]    Produce only a single run (otherwise repeats until interrupted)
```

Usage example:
```
main_nexusPublisher -f /path/to/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid.git/data/SANS_test_uncompressed.hdf5 -d /path/to/isis_nexus_streamer_for_mantid.git/data/spectrum_gastubes_01.dat -b localhost -i SANS2D -z
```

## Broker Configuration
Timestamped "run" start and stop messages are produced. With these Mantid can join the stream at the start of a run and has various options for behaviour at run stop. This makes use of the offset by timestamp lookup feature and thus requires Kafka version >0.10.2.0 on the brokers.
It is also important to allow larger than the default message size by adding the following to the kafka configuration file (`server.properties`):
```
replica.fetch.max.bytes=10000000
message.max.bytes=10000000
```
We use this Ansible playbook to deploy Kafka: https://github.com/ScreamingUdder/ansible-kafka-centos

## Containers
The docker-compose script can be used to launch a single-broker Kafka cluster and the NeXus streamer. The broker is available on port 9092 of the host machine.
Run the following in the root directory of the repository to launch the containers.
```
docker-compose up
```

## Dependencies
Currently requires having `librdkafka` and the HDF5 C++ library installed. If `tcmalloc` is available then it will be used, but it is not a requirement.

`Google Test` and `Google Mock` are used for unit testing but are not required to be installed; CMake will download and build them at configure-time.

Due to large file sizes altering the test data requires `git lfs` to be installed:
https://git-lfs.github.com/

## Unit tests
The unit test executable `unitTests` needs to be passed the path of the test data directory as an argument.
Alternatively, run all units tests using ctest with
```
ctest -VV
```
from the build directory.

## Schema
The schema files are located in https://github.com/ess-dmsc/streaming-data-types
